Readme update (#12)
valory-xyz/mech-predict: README.md

Follow the instructions below to run the AI Mech demo executing the tool in `./packages/valory/customs/openai_request.py`. Note that AI Mechs can be configured to work in two modes: *polling mode*, which periodically reads the chain, and *websocket mode*, which receives event updates from the chain. The default mode used by the demo is *polling*.

> **Warning**<br />
> **The demo service is configured to match a specific on-chain agent (ID 3 on [Mech Hub](https://aimechs.autonolas.network/registry)). Since you will not have access to its private key, your local instance will not be able to transact.
> However, it will be able to receive Requests for AI tasks [sent from Mech Hub](https://aimechs.autonolas.network/mech). These Requests will be executed by your local instance, but you will notice that a failure will occur when it tries to submit the transaction on-chain (Deliver type).**

Now, you have two options to run the worker: as a standalone agent or as a service.

> ### Option 1: Run the Mech as an agent service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 1: Run the Mech as a service
```

#### Configuration of the service

> First, you need to configure the worker service. You need to create a `.1env` file which contains the service configuration parameters. We provide a prefilled template (`.example.env`). You will need to provide or create an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to configure the service. You need to create a `.1env` file which contains the service configuration parameters. We provide a prefilled template (`.example.env`). You will need to provide or create an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys).
```

Follow the instructions below to run the AI Mech demo executing the tool in `./packages/valory/customs/openai_request.py`. Note that AI Mechs can be configured to work in two modes: *polling mode*, which periodically reads the chain, and *websocket mode*, which receives event updates from the chain. The default mode used by the demo is *polling*.

> **Warning**<br />
> **The demo service is configured to match a specific on-chain agent (ID 3 on [Mech Hub](https://aimechs.autonolas.network/registry)). Since you will not have access to its private key, your local instance will not be able to transact.
> However, it will be able to receive Requests for AI tasks [sent from Mech Hub](https://aimechs.autonolas.network/mech). These Requests will be executed by your local instance, but you will notice that a failure will occur when it tries to submit the transaction on-chain (Deliver type).**

> 

Author: Done

:warning: The addresses in the variables `MECH_TO_CONFIG` and `MECH_TO_SUBSCRIPTION` should be identical and correspond 
to the address of the Mech contract. Furthermore, `NUM_AGENTS` has to be between 1 and 4.

If you want to run a legacy Mech, the `MECH_MARKETPLACE_ADDRESS` is optional. Otherwise this variable needs to be defined. 
Furthermore, in the variable `MECH_TO_CONFIG`, the value corresponding to the key `is_marketplace_mech` should be set to true.

In order to run your custom tool, you need to add its name and hash to the variable `TOOLS_TO_PACKAGE_HASH`.

When running the Mech as a service, follow these additional steps: 

- Ensure that the variable `ALL_PARTICIPANTS` in the file `.1env` contains the same agent instance address as in `keys.json` when running the Mech as a service.

- In the file `run_service.sh`, change the line `[autonomy deploy build -ltm](https://github.com/valory-xyz/mech-predict/blob/main/run_service.sh#L28)` to `autonomy deploy build -ltm -n k`,

> where k is replaced by the number of agents in your service (value of the variable `NUM_AGENTS`). For instance for 1 agent: `autonomy deploy build -ltm -n 1`.

Reviewer: Why not use the `NUM_AGENTS` value in the script and set it on the user's behalf?

Follow the instructions below to run the AI Mech demo executing the tool in `./packages/valory/customs/openai_request.py`. Note that AI Mechs can be configured to work in two modes: *polling mode*, which periodically reads the chain, and *websocket mode*, which receives event updates from the chain. The default mode used by the demo is *polling*.

> **Warning**<br />
> ** You won't be able to run the Mech with the configurations displayed below (in particular since you will not have access to the private key for the agent address displayed), and will need to adjust them.

Now, you have two options to run the worker: as a standalone agent or as a service.

### Option 1: Run the Mech as a service

#### Configuration of the service

First, you need to configure the service. 

Ensure you have a file with the agent address and private key (`keys.json`). You can generate a new private key file using the Open Autonomy CLI:

    ```bash
    autonomy generate-key ethereum -n 1
    ```

This is only to create a file with the right format. You need to replace the address by your own agent address and the private key by the one of this address. You do not need to change the ledger.

> You need to create a `.1env` file which contains the service configuration parameters. We provide a prefilled template (`.example_agent.env`). You will need to use an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys) in the configuration.

Reviewer 2: why this key is mandatory?

> 

Reviewer: `.example_agent.env` does not exist. Moreover, this step describes how to run as a service, not as an agent.

Run the following, where `network` is replaced by the name of the network (gnosis or base):

```bash
# Copy the prefilled template
cp .example_service_network.env .1env
```

##### Environment Variables

> You will need customize the agent's behaviour by setting the environment variables in the `.1env` file. The following table provides a description and templates for these variables. You can find also additional instructions below it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to customize the service's behaviour by setting the environment variables in the `.1env` file. The following table provides a description and templates for these variables. You can also find additional instructions below it.
```

| `HASH_CHECKPOINT_ADDRESS`           | `str` | `0x694e62BDF7Ff510A4EE66662cf4866A961a31653`                                                                                                                                                         | Address of a contract recording metadata.                                         |
| `AGENT_REGISTRY_ADDRESS`   | `str`  | `"0xE49CB081e8d96920C38aA7AB90cb0294ab4Bc8EA"`                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Smart contract which registers the agents.                             |
| `LOG_DIR`           | `str` |                                                                                                                                                          | Path for storing the logs.                                         |

> ⚠️ The variables `ETHEREUM_LEDGER_RPC_0` and `GNOSIS_RPC_0` are expected to be identical. The part `API_KEY` can be changed with your own API KEY. You can also use any other RPC.

Reviewer 2: that needs to be clarified. Say clearly what is needed for each network

> ⚠️ The variables `CONNECTION_LEDGER_CONFIG_LEDGER_APIS_GNOSIS_ADDRESS` and `CONNECTION_LEDGER_CONFIG_LEDGER_APIS_ETHEREUM_ADDRESS` are expected to be identical. The part `API_KEY` can be changed with your own API KEY. You can also use any other RPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: The variables `CONNECTION_LEDGER_CONFIG_LEDGER_APIS_GNOSIS_ADDRESS` and `CONNECTION_LEDGER_CONFIG_LEDGER_APIS_ETHEREUM_ADDRESS` are expected to be identical. The part `API_KEY` can be changed with your own API KEY. You can also use any other RPC.
```

Reviewer: Same comment as before. The configuration should be updated so that the same name is used for both. It does not make sense to ask the user to fill in the same value twice.

> ⚠️ The address in the variables `SKILL_TASK_EXECUTION_MODELS_PARAMS_ARGS_MECH_TO_CONFIG` and `SKILL_MECH_ABCI_MODELS_PARAMS_ARGS_MECH_TO_SUBSCRIPTION` should be identical and correspond 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: The address in the variables `SKILL_TASK_EXECUTION_MODELS_PARAMS_ARGS_MECH_TO_CONFIG` and `SKILL_MECH_ABCI_MODELS_PARAMS_ARGS_MECH_TO_SUBSCRIPTION` should be identical and correspond 
```

to the address of the Mech contract.

> The variables `AGENT_REGISTRY_ADDRESS` and `MECH_MARKETPLACE_ADDRESS` can be found [there](https://github.com/valory-xyz/autonolas-registries/blob/main/docs/configuration.json) and [there](https://github.com/valory-xyz/ai-registry-mech/blob/main/docs/configuration.json) respectively. They correspond respectively to the "ServiceRegistryL2" address and "MechMarketPlaceProxy" address. You need to select the ones which correspond to the chosen network.

Reviewer 2: not true for agent registry

> For the variable `SKILL_MECH_ABCI_MODELS_BENCHMARK_TOOL_ARGS_LOG_DIR`, create a folder `tmp` and copy its absolute path, and set the variable `SKILL_MECH_ABCI_MODELS_BENCHMARK_TOOL_ARGS_LOG_DIR` to this path.

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary.

If you want to run a legacy Mech, the `MECH_MARKETPLACE_ADDRESS` is optional. Otherwise this variable needs to be defined. 
Furthermore, in the variable `MECH_TO_CONFIG`, the value corresponding to the key `is_marketplace_mech` should be set to true.
Note that even in this case, the Mech won't run without changing also the other variables. 

> Ensure that the variable `ALL_PARTICIPANTS` in the file `.agentenv` contains the same agent instance address as in `keys.json`.

Reviewer 2: is this necessary also for running the service?

Once you are done modifying the `.1env` file, run the following: 

```bash
# Source the env file

> source .1env

Reviewer 2: not necessary the script alredy does that

```

> Finally, in the file `run_service.sh`, change the line `autonomy deploy build -ltm` to `autonomy deploy build -ltm -n k`,

Reviewer 2: same suggestion for the other pr

> 

Reviewer: I do not understand why this step is in the service-running instructions.

where k is replaced by the number of agents in your service. For instance for 1 agent: `autonomy deploy build -ltm -n 1`.

> The rest of the common environment variables are present in the [service.yaml](https://github.com/valory-xyz/mech/blob/main/packages/valory/services/mech/service.yaml), which are customizable too.

Reviewer 2: same for the other pr

> where k is replaced by the number of agents in your service. For instance for 1 agent: `autonomy deploy build -ltm -n 1`.

Reviewer: This number cannot be larger than `4`.

#### Running the service 

1. Run the service:

    ```
    poetry shell
    poetry install
    bash run_service.sh
    ```

2. Build the docker container by running the following:

> 

Reviewer: The docker container is already built.

Reviewer 2: @Sfgangloff update the other pr accordingly

```
cd mech
build_dir=$(ls -d abci_build_????/ 2>/dev/null || echo "abci_build")
autonomy deploy run --build-dir $build_dir

> ```

Reviewer: This should be in the script instead.

Reviewer 2: @Sfgangloff update the other pr accordingly

3. In a separate terminal, run the following to see the logs:

```
container = $(basename "$(ls -d ../*/abci_build_????/ 2>/dev/null | head -n 1)" | sed -E 's/^abci_build_//')
container = "mech${container}_abci_0"
docker logs -f container

> ```

Reviewer: Let's specify that this is for the first agent's logs as the user might be running this as a multi-agent service.

Reviewer 2: @Sfgangloff update the other pr accordingly

### Option 2: Run the Mech as a standalone agent

#### Configuration of the agent

First, ensure you have a file with a private key (`ethereum_private_key.txt`). You can generate a new private key file using the Open Autonomy CLI:

   ```
   autonomy generate-key ethereum 
   ```

> Replace the key by the one of your agent's address (you need to have an EOA for this).

Reviewer: These could be common steps instead of repeating them under each option.

Reviewer 2: agree

Author: These steps are not exactly the same, and I don't really know how to uniformize this, since it seems to be built in open-autonomy.

Author: On the other hand I have put both instruction at the top

Then you need to configure the agent. You need to create a `.agentenv` file which contains the service configuration parameters. We provide a prefilled template (`.example_agent.env`). You will need to use an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys) in the configuration.

Run the following, where `network` is replaced by the name of the network (gnosis or base):

```bash
# Copy the prefilled template
cp .example_agent_network.env .agentenv
```

> The variables to change are the same as for the [service](#configuration-of-the-service). Other customizable variables can be found in the `packages/valory/agents/mech/aea-config.yaml` file. 

Reviewer: If we were to keep this part, we should also explain how to extract the env var's name.

source .1env
```

Ensure you have a file with the agent address and private key (`keys.json`). You can generate a new private key file using the Open Autonomy CLI:

    ```bash

>     autonomy generate-key ethereum -n 1

Author: No it needs to be replaced, added some line.

| `ETHEREUM_LEDGER_CHAIN_ID`           | `str` | 100                                                                                                                                                          | The id of the chain.                                         |
| `ALL_PARTICIPANTS`           | `list` | `'["0x6A69696C29808F0A6638230fC0Cc752080c5dd7F"]'`                                                                                                                                                         | The list of addresses of workers.                                         |
| `RESET_PAUSE_DURATION`           | `int` | 100                                                                                                                                                         | The list of addresses of workers.                                         |
| `SAFE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`           | `str` | `0x8c18415836A6E2e61d1E9cc33F0a1b5Ac2219372`                                                                                                                                                         | Address of the service's safe contract.                                         |

> | `CHECKPOINT_ADDRESS`           | `str` | `0x8c18415836A6E2e61d1E9cc33F0a1b5Ac2219372`                                                                                                                                                         | Address of a contract recording metadata.                                         |

Reviewer: This is not well-formatted. Could you check the rendered version?

Author: Fixed

/!\ The variables ETHEREUM_LEDGER_RPC_0 and GNOSIS_RPC_0 are expected to be identical.

> /!\ The address in the variables `MECH_TO_CONFIG` and `MECH_TO_SUBSCRIPTION` should be identical and correspond 

Reviewer: Why not add an icon instead of `/!\`?

Reviewer: Also, if they are expected to be identical, why don't they simply use the same env var name?

Author: This is for historical reason, don't know exactly why.

Author: Replaced with icon

to the address of the Mech contract.

If you want to run a legacy Mech, the `MECH_MARKETPLACE_ADDRESS` is optional. Otherwise this variable needs to be defined. 
Furthermore, in the variable `MECH_TO_CONFIG`, the value corresponding to the key `is_marketplace_mech` should be set to true.

The rest of the common environment variables are present in the [service.yaml](https://github.com/valory-xyz/mech/blob/main/packages/valory/services/mech/service.yaml), which are customizable too.

#### Running the service 

1. Ensure you have a file with the agent address and private key (`keys.json`). You can generate a new private key file using the Open Autonomy CLI:

    ```bash
    autonomy generate-key ethereum -n 1
    ```

2. Ensure that the variable `ALL_PARTICIPANTS` in the file `.1env` contains the same agent address as in `keys.json`:

   ```bash
   ALL_PARTICIPANTS='["your_agent_address"]'
   ```

3. Run the service:

    ```bash
    bash run_service.sh
    ```

> 4. Build the docker container: copy the four letters word in the folder `abci_build_{word}` in the `mech` folder and run the following:

Reviewer: Why not provide a command for this? Manual operations should be minimal:

```bash
build_dir=$(ls -d abci_build_????/ 2>/dev/null || echo "abci_build")
autonomy deploy run --build-dir $build_dir
```

Author: Didn't know that I can do that, thanks !

```
cd mech
autonomy deploy run --build-dir abci_build_{word} 
```

where word is replaced by this four letters word.

5. In a separate terminal, run the following to see the logs:

```
docker logs -f mech{word}_abci_0

> ```

Reviewer: Same here.

### Option 2: Run the Mech as a standalone agent

#### Configuration of the agent

First, you need to configure the agent, by adding parameters to the `packages/valory/agents/mech/aea-config.yaml` file. 

> The variables to change are the same as for the [service](#configuration-of-the-service). In this file you can also find other variables which can be customized.

Reviewer: A .env file should be used here too, instead of requesting manual changes to the `aea-config.yaml`.

Author: @Adamantios I tried to use an .env file but it seemed to ignore it for some reason, Kahan told me that aea-config.yaml should be modified instead. Don't know if there is something additional to do there ?

Author: This is modified by Kahan in the branch feat/run-agent

#### Running the agent 

1. Ensure you have a file with a private key (`ethereum_private_key.txt`). You can generate a new private key file using the Open Autonomy CLI:

   ```bash
   autonomy generate-key ethereum 

>    ```

Reviewer: This should happen before setting the env vars, otherwise, the user has no address to set.

2. From one terminal, run the agent:

    ```bash

>     bash run_agent.sh

Reviewer: Why are we using the script here but not for the service instructions above?

Author: I don't understand this

| `ON_CHAIN_SERVICE_ID`           | `int` | 1966                                                                                                                                                          | The id of the service in Olas Service Registry                                          |
| `NUM_AGENTS`           | `int` | 4                                                                                                                                                          | Number of workers in the service.                                         |
| `ETHEREUM_LEDGER_RPC_0`           | `str` | `https://nd-549-204-122.p2pify.com/ad3676fcfec45f3cc967a3260f556e74`                                                                                                                                                          | RPC for ethereum.                                         |

> | `GNOSIS_RPC_0`           | `str` | `https://nd-549-204-122.p2pify.com/ad3676fcfec45f3cc967a3260f556e74`                                                                                                                                                          | RPC for ethereum.                                         |

Reviewer 2: @Sfgangloff @Adamantios can these be publicly shared without issues?

Author: Changed the key to dummy

| `RESET_PAUSE_DURATION`           | `int` | 100                                                                                                                                                         | The list of addresses of workers.                                         |
| `SAFE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`           | `str` | `0x8c18415836A6E2e61d1E9cc33F0a1b5Ac2219372`                                                                                                                                                         | Address of the service's safe contract.                                         |
| `CHECKPOINT_ADDRESS`           | `str` | `0x8c18415836A6E2e61d1E9cc33F0a1b5Ac2219372`                                                                                                                                                         | Address of a contract recording metadata.                                         |

⚠️ The variables ETHEREUM_LEDGER_RPC_0 and GNOSIS_RPC_0 are expected to be identical.

⚠️ The address in the variables `MECH_TO_CONFIG` and `MECH_TO_SUBSCRIPTION` should be identical and correspond 
to the address of the Mech contract.

> If you want to run a legacy Mech, the `MECH_MARKETPLACE_ADDRESS` is optional. Otherwise this variable needs to be defined. 

Author: Done

Furthermore, in the variable `MECH_TO_CONFIG`, the value corresponding to the key `is_marketplace_mech` should be set to true.

Ensure that the variable `ALL_PARTICIPANTS` in the file `.1env` contains the same agent address as in `keys.json`.

The rest of the common environment variables are present in the [service.yaml](https://github.com/valory-xyz/mech/blob/main/packages/valory/services/mech/service.yaml), which are customizable too.

#### Running the service 

1. Run the service:

    ```
    bash run_service.sh
    ```

2. Build the docker container by running the following:

```
cd mech
build_dir=$(ls -d abci_build_????/ 2>/dev/null || echo "abci_build")
autonomy deploy run --build-dir $build_dir
```

> where word is replaced by this four letters word.

Author: Removed

3. In a separate terminal, run the following to see the logs:

```
container = $(basename "$(ls -d ../*/abci_build_????/ 2>/dev/null | head -n 1)" | sed -E 's/^abci_build_//')
container = "mech${container}_abci_0"
docker logs -f container
```

### Option 2: Run the Mech as a standalone agent

#### Configuration of the agent

First, ensure you have a file with a private key (`ethereum_private_key.txt`). You can generate a new private key file using the Open Autonomy CLI:

   ```
   autonomy generate-key ethereum 
   ```

Then you need to configure the agent, by adding parameters to the `packages/valory/agents/mech/aea-config.yaml` file. 

> The variables to change are the same as for the [service](#configuration-of-the-service). In this file you can also find other variables which can be customized.

Author: No need
